hey guys welcome to my channel today I'm
gonna give you some tips and tricks that
help me read faster and it doesn't
matter whether English is your first
language second or third I'm gonna give
you very practical tips that will help
you read in any language and I started
reading four to five books a month
sometimes I go beyond that number and I
know that there are people who read like
ten books a month there are so many
amazing books coming out I read books on
marketing management health and you
don't want to miss that information so
the thing you can do right now is
improve your reading speed and I'm gonna
teach you how so today I'm gonna teach
you to read faster the first step you
have to take in the first step that I've
taken is actually separating formats
what I mean by that there are three
general formats of books bad we have
there are hard copies right there that's
a hard copy there is an audiobook and
there's an electronic book so for
audiobooks I try to stick to fiction
because I don't really write things down
when I'm listening to stories and I can
actually do another thing while
listening to an audiobook like I can
clean my room I can do my makeup I can
do my nails I can cook it's multitasking
cuz I'm just listening to a story I'm
not necessarily writing a to-do list
like because when I'm reading practical
books like books on marketing books on
management I really need a read because
I would highlight some paragraphs I
would send something that comes to my
mind to my husband or to my team like
hey would you do this this and that so I
would say audiobooks for stories audio
stories so you can be more relaxed
electronic books for learning so you can
highlight things highlighter and okay
hardcopy books I don't really do them
anymore because I like to declutter my
space I don't like when extra things
appear in my room but I would use
hardcopy books for poolside or like for
relaxing it's just another experience
because if you highlight things in those
books you just sometimes lose that
information so really I would recommend
sticking to these two formats hardcopy
now let's go to reading faster on
average a person would read a hundred
fifty to two hundred words per minute
and this is very very very slow reading
slow this can actually be compared to
the base of speaking you can read so
much faster you can go about 300 words
per minute and this is considered faster
reading there's by the way tests
available to check your reading speed I
will leave a link below so if you're not
sure where you are at and you probably
not take the test and see where you are
but people can go to as fast as 600
words a minute 700 words a minute and
yes that's doable
I can read over 3,000 words a minute why
does this happen
because most of us think that reading is
actually speaking into your head so a
lot of people actually say words that
they're reading in their heads and this
slows them down completely you need to
start on working on visual reading
instead of saying words in your head so
get rid of this subvocalization writing
the sturm down just for you to make sure
that you understand me completely
subvocalization ways to get rid of it
count words
don't count and by the way I'm gonna do
this we don't need this at all what do I
mean by counting words in your hat so
you're reading something and in your
head you go like this was what number
one number two number three so you are
trying to distract your brain with
something else so instead of your brain
trying to pronounce everything that
you're reading you actually telling your
brain hey do the word count and then
I'll just read because two things at a
time is I think the maxilla brain can do
you stop saying things in your head and
you actually start to do the visual
reading like getting the meaning of the
words just by seeing them you should be
able to see the words mr. 3000 another
thing you can do is use a rhythm and
what I mean by that for example you want
to read it the space method that you use
for meetings should depend on your goals
education relaxing learning your words
and if I speed myself up I method you're
gonna reverse to depend on your girls
relax in reading learning worth this is
what you can just to just create a
rhythm for yourself and follow it again
helps a lot to speed up your reading the
third thing you can do to get rid of
subvocalization is the listen to music
instrumental classical music is the best
because again it has the pace and it
acts as distraction for your brain nice
distraction guide yourself by guiding
yourself while reading I actually mean
using your hand or a pen to go through
whatever you have to read cervical
ization count where it's your the rhythm
listen to music got yourself the faster
you move the faster your brain starts to
read so just again create a pace for
yourself that's a little above your
comfort zone that makes you read a
little faster just guide yourself with
your hand that's why I'm gonna read
these lines I wrote myself with my own
two hands please start practicing these
techniques the next time you're gonna be
reading find the one that's comfortable
for you find the one that makes you read
faster if these are not enough there are
also several things you could do one of
them is go to Skillshare there is an
amazing course called read better and
faster in just seven days
and because Skillshare is sponsoring
this video you can get free access to
that platform by clicking a link below
and you're gonna get two months access
for free by the way there is another
course that I would recommend taking on
Skillshare
it's called productivity masterclass
creating a custom system that works
because apart from reading faster you
would actually need to find time for
being productive and reading more books
and when you start reading more books
you start getting more information it's
like communicating with more and more
people so I would really advise you to
find time for reading different books
and this masterclass by Thomas Frank is
gonna actually help you find that time
and skill share in general is an amazing
place to find online classes and there
are thousands of other classes covering
dozens of creating and entrepreneurial
skills Premium Membership gives you
unlimited access so you can join the
classes and communities that are just
right for you and if you think of
affordability don't forget that you're
getting two months for free using my
link below and also if later on you
decide to get an annual membership
you're gonna end up paying $10 a month
for full access to all of the classes
and if we compare it to like private
tutoring or even taking an online class
at a university you're saving a lot of
money so again two courses that I
recommend there first is this reading
faster course and the second one is the
productivity class now let's go back to
tips that work for me and I mentioned
productivity class and before reading
any book I want to create a set of tasks
for myself to stay productive while
reading this book because it's very easy
and comment on below if you have this
problem it's very easy to buy a lot of
books and you're like oh I'm gonna read
this this and this and then you start
reading every book and
never finish and you never even get to
the middle of the book this is why
whenever I start a new book I write down
my goal or I just you know think about
it like my goal after reading this
management book is to create an
instruction for my new personal
assistant on how to work with my email
for example so this be a very specific
goal not just learn new things about
marketing know actually you have to be
very specific and your goals have to be
actionable which means that you can act
upon them right after reading the book
the second skills
what skills am I trying to learn after
reading this book again if it's a
management book I'm trying to learn how
to write the right instructions I'm
trying to learn how to create a resume
or I'm trying to learn how to create a
job posting so that I find the right
people time for this book now this is
super important again what happens you
start reading a book and then in a year
you realize you've only read ten
patients so I tell myself okay we need a
finish by November that's it
and in order to be more specific about
this you can set the number of pages
that you read per day for example you
tell yourself okay every day I read 20
pages of this book in order to make
yourself more accountable for what are
you doing you can post on your social
media like hey I love to share my plans
for the day on my Instagram by the way
if you're not yet subscribed it's lingo
marina I love to share my plans because
I feel responsible for what I'm actually
sharing I would be like oh I told my
followers that I'm gonna read 20 pages
of this book today and it happened so I
just need to go back to this and really
accomplish it because I promised
thousands of people or even if you
promised you like 60 of your followers
that's already some accountability so
try that and I promise about reading
this
so I gotta go by and it's okay by the
way to read several books at a time have
you ever read four books at a time so
it's not like you have to read just one
book at a time and start another one
once you're finished totally okay the
only thing that again really helps me is
selecting the books on the similar topic
so if I'm reading a management book like
I don't know how to manage a company
another book that I will be reading is
like a story of a company that's grown
very fast and I can listen to an
audiobook because I don't have to write
things down but I would just you know
listen how they apply different methods
so they're similar but they're different
genres so that helps a lot you're really
mixing genres okay
so once you've become all productive and
you set your goals some more tips number
five don't read word by words you don't
actually need that your brain is totally
fine with understanding just a few words
from a sentence and figuring out the
meaning from them this is particularly
important for anyone who's trying to
read in English and for whom English is
not their first language because
sometimes we try to translate every
single word and this is totally wrong
you don't have to do that we only need
to translate words that affect the
meaning in general what I translate as
well is that if there is a word that
I've seen for 10 times in this book
already and I still don't know what it
means I would translate it just to be
sure that I'm using this word in my own
speech as well since native speakers say
using that where it's so much just a fun
fact for you if you're reading like a
scientific book you can decrease the
number of words by 2.5 times without
losing its meaning if you're reading a
fiction book you can decrease the number
of words by three or four times without
losing its meaning which means that you
can skip words too still
what the author wanted to tell you
another thing that might help
psychologically sometimes you think that
if you read your book back to back
you're going to understand its meaning
in reality you can read the book five or
six times and still not get its meaning
so it's not about how many words you
read it's about how concentrated you are
it's about how familiar you are with the
topic because again you can decrease the
number of words in a book without losing
its meaning I think he could have said
what he has to say with a lot was six I
just mentioned it focus when reading
like an electronic book or a hardcopy
book it's actually really important to
focus how do you know if you're focused
enough when you are reading something
and your brain is still analyzing the
previous paragraph that tells you that
you're not focused enough that tells you
that you're distracted that your brain
still hasn't digested information it has
just received and it's somewhere else so
at this point of time I would ask you to
stop reading maybe get some tea get more
comfortable wherever you are because
it's very important to feel comfortable
while reading you know if you don't have
to think about changing your position or
drinking or whatever you tend to stay
more focused and your speed naturally
increases and by the way reading is a
great great way to get rid of your
stress just make this process enjoyable
just relax and help your brain dig
deeper into the content of the book
[Music]
another tip makes a movie and your pets
I do this all the time make a movie in
your head means create visual images of
whatever is going on in the book create
a visual image of everyone who's in the
book of main characters Department
things they're doing for the company so
whatever you're reading about visual
images helped a lot especially for
people like me who love videos I love
videos and if you're watching YouTube I
guess you'll love videos too and
visualization is a great tool to speed
up your reading process because when you
read the character's name you already
have all those visual images in your
head and it helps you digest information
faster creative visualization next thing
read reviews beforehand those could be
reviews or like a very short version of
a book because this way you're gonna
know what you're looking for you're
gonna know what people loved about this
book you're gonna know what to look for
in this book because maybe they would
tell you like for example you're looking
for a perfect resume or whatever and in
reviews you'll be like oh this guy is
sharing the perfect resume samples in
Chapter four and five and it was so
useful and you know exactly that when
you're gonna read this book you're going
to be extra careful with the chapter
four and five because this is what
you're looking for
so go to different resources read those
reviews it's gonna help structure your
brain and prepare it for all the
upcoming information that was it from me
guys for today let's just conclude I
wanted to highlight something so no
matter what speed you're at I want you
to get to the speed of 800 words for a
minute this is the best speed for
reading five to six books a month
another thing that I wanted to highlight
once again use your pen to guide you
this is one of the most practical skills
that worked for me like guiding yourself
through reading the last but not the
least something to pay attention to pay
attention to where your eyes are looking
at when you're reading so ideally they
have to be focused on the middle of the
page so don't go from the first word to
the last word of the paragraph mostly
focus on what's in the middle area of
the page this way you're just making
sure that you're not reading every
single word that you're just scanning
and digesting the most important words
to understand the meaning again this
might sound very complicated I want you
to start practicing I want you to write
things down in your own exercise books
or whatever is so you have them and I
want you to take those classes that I've
mentioned the productivity and the
reading class given the links have below
two months for free with skill share
just because you watched this video guys
you're amazing if you know yet subscribe
to my channel hit the subscribe button
if you like this content like this video
I hope this was useful and I hope you're
gonna use it and I will see you very
soon in my next videos bye bye